docs: Document important labels and how to interact with them. (#4234)
collectd/collectd: docs/CONTRIBUTING.md

    entries to `src/types.db`, you should talk to us early in the design
    process.

### Labels

PRs need to be categorized into one of three categories:

*   **Feature**

>     The code has new behavior. Performance and documentation improvements are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The code has new behavior. Also performance and documentation improvements (other than bug fixes) are
```

Author: This is not really helpful when trying to differentiate "Feature" and "Fix", because it essentially says "it's a feature, unless it's a fix".

I guess it's probably unlikely that we'll increase the "minor version" just for a documentation change. We can also document doc updates as "fixes" and trivial changes (e.g. fixing a typo) as "unlisted" / "internal" … WDYT?

Reviewer: I tried to clarify that:
* Some performance and documentation changes can be labeled as fixes (e.g. to large performance regression, or grossly misleading documentation)
* A given change (within PR) should be tagged only with one label [1]

Would there be some better wording for that?

[1] If PR contains multiple types of changes; features, fixes, and some non-user-visible changes, I assume that PR should include both "Feature" and "Fix" labels, but maybe "Internal" one could be skipped.

=> If PR has multiple labels, including "Fix", patch release should cherry-pick commits from the PR, instead of taking the whole PR?

=> Review should  reject commits that include multiple types, and ask PR to be split if it has commits of multiple types?

(I have one PR with 2 labels, but as Sysman plugin is new, these distinctions aren't really relevant for it as the whole thing is a new "Feature": https://github.com/collectd/collectd/pull/4079)

> I guess it's probably unlikely that we'll increase the "minor version" just for a documentation change. We can also document doc updates as "fixes" and trivial changes (e.g. fixing a typo) as "unlisted" / "internal" … WDYT?

Hm.  If PR fixes documentation _that relates to an earlier code change PR_ (not yet in release), IMHO it should have the same label as the code change, so that it gets picked to the same branch / release type.

Other documentation updates should be safe to include also into patch/fix releases, and typo fixes _are_ fixes...

Note: I'm not sure what's the role of "Internal" changes in deciding whether something goes to a patch/fix release or not.  Will they be included into those or not?

Author: > * Some performance and documentation changes can be labeled as fixes (e.g. to large performance regression, or grossly misleading documentation)

I have addressed this by using the word "typically", e.g. *"Performance improvements are **typically** considered features."* My goal is to give guidance to contributors that are unsure. If there's a good reason for labeling a performance improvement as "fix", that is perfectly fine.

> * A given change (within PR) should be tagged only with one label [1]

IMHO the doc already says this:
*"PRs need to be categorized into one of three categories"*

If that is not clear enough, we could add "exactly":
*"PRs need to be categorized into **exactly** one of three categories"*

> => Review should reject commits that include multiple types, and ask PR to be split if it has commits of multiple types?

This. Don't mix concerns; open separate PRs instead. I have added a note to this effect to the doc.

> (I have one PR with 2 labels, but as Sysman plugin is new, these distinctions aren't really relevant for it as the whole thing is a new "Feature": #4079)

The main problem, in my opinion, is that this code hasn't been released yet: is it really a "fix" if nobody is using the code yet? I think the best answer is to get the code into the hands of users. With regard to the label, either way is fine. When we create a release and there is at least one PR that is marked as a feature, the entire release is going to be considered a feature release.

> Hm. If PR fixes documentation _that relates to an earlier code change PR_ (not yet in release), IMHO it should have the same label as the code change, so that it gets picked to the same branch / release type.

As mentioned above, I don't think this matters enough that we should be arguing about it. I'd just use a "docs" prefix in the PR title, which currently maps to "Fix", but your approach also works for me.

> Note: I'm not sure what's the role of "Internal" changes in deciding whether something goes to a patch/fix release or not. Will they be included into those or not?

As mentioned (or possibly implied) in #4222 I'd like to move towards a "trunk based" development model. So the next release will include all new PRs and we don't cherry-pick into release branches.

    considered features. These changes would typically go into a "feature
    release".

> *   **Bug**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   **Fix**
```

Reviewer: Patch releases with "Fixes" or "Bug fixes" is fine, one with "Bugs" is not. :-)

Author: Fixed and bot has been updated.

>     The code fixes a bug, regression, or otherwise unintended behavior. These

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The code fixes a bug, regression, otherwise unintended behavior, or incorrect documentation. These
```

(incorrect, misleading, wrong... could not decide on best word.)

    changes would typically go into a "patch" release.

> *   **Unlisted Change**

Reviewer: I'd like more descriptive name for this category, maybe "User invisible change"?

Reviewer: "Not user visible" would be marginally shorter.

Author: The name was initially chosen to say "not listed in the change log". What do you think about "Internal"?

Author: I have seen "Maintenance" on a different project and think this is probably the best term overall. Changed.

Reviewer: Yes, "Maintenance" is definitely best!

```

The summary must be on a line of its own, with a "ChangeLog:" prefix at the

> beginning of the line. The text should start with "Foo plugin" or "collectd"
> (when making changes to the daemon itself) to give the reader context for the
> information. Other common contexts are "collectd" for the core daemon, "Build
> system", and "Documentation". Use past tense and passive voice the for

Reviewer: "collectd" context is mentioned twice, maybe:
```suggestion
beginning of the line. To give the reader context for the information, the text
should start with "<name of> plugin" when making changes to a plugin, and
"collectd" for the core daemon changes.  Other common contexts are "Build
system" and "Documentation". Use past tense and passive voice the for
```

Author: Great, thanks!

```

The summary must be on a line of its own, with a "ChangeLog:" prefix at the
beginning of the line. To give the reader context for the information, the text
should start with "${name} plugin" when making changes to a plugin, and
"collectd" for the core daemon changes. Other common contexts are "Build
system", and "Documentation". Use past tense and passive voice the for

> remainder, e.g. "a bug has been fixed", "a feature has been added".

Reviewer: To avoid anybody copying these too-generic suggestions literally:
```suggestion
remainder, e.g. "bug <id|description> has been fixed", "<id|description>
feature has been added".
```

Author: Great suggestion, thanks!
